commit f79e5351608302264fbd909f99f5420b01079582
Author: Linus Benedict Torvalds <torvalds@klaava.Helsinki.FI>
Date:   Sat Jul 4 23:25:40 1992 +0000

    0.96c out
    
    The latest kernel version is 0.96c: the binary and sources can be found
    on banjo.concert.net: pub/Linux/Linus as usual. I haven't made the
    cdiffs yet, and I'll upload those tomorrow (at the same time I'll put it
    on the other sites as well).
    
    0.96c is actually what I called patch3 earlier this week, but as the new
    features were pretty big and the cdiff's are probably going to be bigger
    than the normal patches, I decided I might as well make it a totally new
    minor release and make a bootimage and complete source available.
    
    0.96c contains:
     - bugfixes (tty, console driver, pty's, sockets)
     - fifo's (names pipes - Paul Hargrove & editing by me)
     - the alpha extended filesystem (Remy Card)
     - st_blocks implemented (ie du, ls give reasonable if not exact values
       for disk-space used)
     - Makefile cleanups and warnings at compile-time removed
    
    Note that while the extended filesystem code is there, and this kernel
    successfully mounts and uses the new filesystem (with long filenames and
    >64MB partitions), it's still under testing: I haven't made the mkefs
    program available, and the extended filesystem features shouldn't be
    used for other than testing right now.
    
    Some of the changes are just cleanups: most of the warnings when
    compiling the new kernel should be gone (not counting the scsi code
    which is still the old non-cleaned-up version), and the make'ing of the
    kernel is more logical now.
    
    The bugfixes include the corrected console.c driver, the socket
    corrections (without which X sometimes locks up), some pty semantics
    corrections (although I'm still not certain it's correct) and some
    editing in the general tty driver (including fixing the bug introduced
    in 0.96b.pl2 that caused a reboot with uninitialized tty devices).
    
    While the extended filesystem support isn't "official" yet, I can
    happily report that my limited testing hasn't found any problems with
    long filenames etc. It still needs a fsck program, but 1.0 looks like a
    real possibility soon.
    
                    Linus

commit 8404560378fc29692399a65c34d39d80699f7288
Author: Linus Benedict Torvalds <torvalds@klaava.Helsinki.FI>
Date:   Fri May 22 21:01:59 1992 +0000

    0.96a available
    
    Oh, well, no use in delaying it any more, so I sent out my latest
    release to nic.funet.fi, tsx-11.mit.edu and banjo.concert.net. They
    should show up in the next couple of days (they are already visible on
    banjo: /pub/Linux/Linus). I hope all the bugs got fixed, but I did
    something potentially stupid:
    
    I had expected that lankaster wouldn't get his hd-speedup patches ready
    for 0.96a, and I was resigned to the same hd-performance as with all
    older releases. But when I saw them on the newsgroup today I thought
    I'd try them out just in case, as I could always use my backup-version
    if they backfired...
    
    The point here is that the patch ended up in 0.96a after some minor
    edits by me (one benign bug and some editing due to changed files). So
    now hd-performance is much better on most operations. I just hope it
    doesn't result in yet another release just to fix new bugs (but I doubt
    it: the patches were really minor and clean - no ugly hacks needed I'm
    happy to say). Branko already posted benchmarks, and I can only confirm
    that it's indeed snappier, especially on writes. syncing is no longer a
    pain even after heavy writing.
    
    Other than the hd-performance, there are no new features I haven't
    already mentioned in other posts. Bug-fixes, rewrites in C, better
    debugging. I haven't made the cdiffs yet, so right now the new release
    is only available as complete source and as a binary, but I'll try to
    get patches done tonight. Possibly tomorrow. The patches will be
    against the original 0.96, and shouldn't be too big.
    
                    Linus
    
    PS. No need for more 16550 info: even if somebody doesn't implement it
    for the next release, I think I can get it going. Doesn't seem too
    hard. I'll also start to look into core-files. Eventually. Promise.
    
    PPS. Ja 0.96a on taas saatavilla klaavasta /usr/tmp/linux'ssa
    yliopistolla kirjoilla oleville.
    
    -----
    
    From: torvalds@klaava.Helsinki.FI (Linus Benedict Torvalds)
    Subject: 0.96a out today/tomorrow
    Date: 21 May 1992 12:19:55 GMT
    
    The subject say it all: I haven't heard any bad results (except somewhat
    worse performance on the serial lines) from the testimage testers, so
    I'll make 0.96a available tonight (Finnish time: EST) or tomorrow.
    tsx-11, nic and banjo will be the sites I'll upload it to.
    
    0.96a doesn't have any major new features: I just tried to correct known
    bugs and get a stable version out the door. I hope 0.96 won't need any
    more interim releases, but we'll see.
    
    0.96a has gone back to non-interruptible hd-interrupts, and as long as
    I'm not sure about the reason for the need of this, it's going to stay
    that way. I hope this new version will run on all drives that have been
    supported in the past, and the only known remaining problem is the Kalok
    drives which have spurious interrupts. That's definitely a hardware
    problem, and Branko Lankaster has patches that fake away these..
    
    0.96a should also correct most of the serial line problems, and the
    keyboard driver is now in C - I expect somebody will change it to allow
    run-time keyboard changing. Additionally, there are various minor fixes
    in various places:
    
    - the kill fix by tytso that allows any process to wake up a stopped
      process as long as it's in the same session.
    
    - chown fix by card and me. Users can chgrp files they own to any group
      they belong to etc - _POSIX_CHOWN_RESTRICTED should now be implemented
      correctly. Also, chown() on a symlink now actually chown's the symlink
      and not the file it points to (but GNU fileutils don't seem to want to
      chown symlinks anyway - or maybe I have an older version)
    
    - SIGSEGV fix by lankaster (?) which allows for better debugging after
      protection faults. Most such errors are now trappable in gdb
      (although some circumstances can still result in the process exiting
      at once: out-of-memory errors etc)
    
    I have also changed the memory manager to check for illegal memory
    references (ie using the area between brk and stack), so debugging bad
    pointer references should be much easier. This fix will hopefully also
    trap the uncompress problem with bad files, but I haven't tried it out.
    Programs can still call brk() with any value, so it doesn't mean that
    you can't use up all available memory, but at least this should fix
    /bad/ memory references. My limited tests with gdb seems to indicate it
    all works nicely.
    
    Core files are still not generated (I haven't got the slightest idea
    what format they should have), so debugging isn't perfect yet, but it
    should certainly be much easier.
    
                    Linus
    
    -----
    
    [ Committer's note: this commit also folds the lost 0.96 release. ]
    
    From: torvalds@klaava.Helsinki.FI (Linus Benedict Torvalds)
    Subject: 0.96 uploaded
    Date: 12 May 1992 16:51:12 GMT
    
    Well, the title says it all: I've sent off 0.96 to banjo.concert.net,
    where it can be found in pub/Linux/Linus along with a new bootimage and
    a program for formatting floppies under linux (which works only under
    0.96).
    
    I've also sent it to tsx-11.mit.edu and I'll send it to nic as soon as
    the lines clear up.
    
    General warning about 0.96:
    
    - the scsi code is in the kernel, but I haven't personally tested it,
      so who knows... The SCSI code also results in a 4-5 second pause at
      bootup with the current bootimage, while it searches for an adapter:
      if you find this disturbing, you have to recompile the kernel with the
      appropriate changes to config.h.
    
    - The harddisk timings have changed: the testimage got a generally good
      review, but it hasn't been tested very much. The changes seem to help
      at least some "HD times out" problems, but there might be new bugs..
    
    - The serial code was totally rewritten this weekend, and I haven't
      tested it out under any heavier load. I found one bug as late as
      today, and there might be others lurking around.
    
    - There have been generally pretty heavy rewrites: it's binary
      compatible with the old kernels, but the changes might not all be
      correct. Oh, well.
    
    That said, I hope 0.96 will be an improvement on earlier versions, and
    most of the old bugs corrected. If the new version still has some
    problem - please mail me with a new bugreport. Otherwise I'll just
    assume the problem went away: I'm afraid don't have time to go through
    old mail searching for any bugs that might still be in there.
    
    Partial list of features:
    
    - automatic floppy detection. Please add the following devices:
    
            mknod /dev/fd0 b 2 0
            mknod /dev/fd1 b 2 1
    
      which act as A and B floppies respectively, finding out automatically
      what kind of disk there is.
    
      The floppy driver now also contains a timeout, so an empty diskdrive
      no longer results in a floppy driver hang.
    
    - serial lines now support dropping DTR on closing, and sending SIGHUP
      to the process group that is logged in on a serial line. It's also a
      lot easier to change the interrupts etc of the lines.
    
    - unix sockets supported for X, as well as mmap() on /dev/mem etc.
    
    - pty's corrected. Hopefully no more hangs under X due to pty trouble.
    
    - better IO-performance when there are computationally intensive jobs in
      the background or on another VC. Partly due to new scheduler
      mechanism, partly due to read-ahead on normal files.
    
    - cleaned up vfs layer.
    
    - no more mismatched children
    
    - minor corrections all over the place.
    
    The new release is in fact different enough that there is no use trying
    to make context diffs: files have disappeared, others are new, others
    have simply changed a lot. Even compared to pre-0.96 there has been
    quite a lot of changes.
    
                    Linus
    
    -----
    
    From: torvalds@klaava.Helsinki.FI (Linus Benedict Torvalds)
    Subject: 0.96 out next week
    Date: 4 May 1992 07:38:03 GMT
    
    Ok, the subject says most of it: I'll send out 0.96 sometimes next week
    (ie 92.05.11-17), and this is just an announcement to confirm that.
    
    0.96 has a lot of changes (even relative to pre-0.96), and it's entirely
    possible that making it available as cdiffs isn't feasible. It contains
    a lot of new files, as well as some re-organizations in the old ones.
    
    Main new things are:
    
    - The SCSI distribution is now in the standard package. I (obviously)
      haven't been able to test my patchings, so there might be problems in
      this first release. I had to do some changes "blind" to the cdiffs,
      but most of them were pretty trivial.
    
    - X11r5 as ported by obz is supported. It's still in beta-testing (join
      the X11-channel on the original mailing-list), but as I'm writing this
      from an xterm under linux, it works pretty well. Changes to pre-0.96
      are just the socket-code by obz, and some small tweaking by me.
    
    - Hopefully better interrupt latency - I've changed select() not to use
      cli-sti, and most IRQ's to enable interrupts, and instead disable just
      their own interrupt-line. The interrupt latency has been noticeable at
      higher serial speeds, and I hope 0.96 will be better in this respect.
      Again, I only have 2400bps, so I've never seen the problems, and
      cannot guarantee the new version will help. (btw, I hope the problems
      with select are gone now)
    
    - Reorganisation of the vfs routines and minix filesystem driver. These
      shouldn't bother anyone but people that have implemented their own
      filesystems (I know of just 2 to date), but I hope the current
      vfs-interface will prove to be relatively stable. The new vfs
      interface has made some things much cleaner, and the promised cleanup
      of special devices has happened.
    
    - ps/uptime patches + added readahead, so having computationally
      intensive background processes isn't as noticeable any more when doing
      IO.
    
    Additionally, there /might/ be a new floppy-driver that supports
    formatting and autodetecting floppies, but I haven't had time to check
    into it yet.
    
    There are probably any number of minor changes: I've lost track. People
    have sent me some diffs, and some of them went in, depending on how
    energetic I was that day. I've tried to correct all the bugs I've
    gotten reports on, and hopefully 0.96 will work with just about
    everything (gdb etc).
    
    Things I wanted, but didn't have time for:
    
    - The config patches aren't there. Sorry everybody. That means still no
      wd8003 driver etc.
    
    - Any number of minor patches (quota, auto-SVGA etc)
    
    Generally, 0.96 is cleaning some things up, but on the other hand the
    new features can have their share of problems. We'll see. Anyway, most
    things seem to work, and I hope there won't be the same type of problems
    as with the first 0.95 release.
    
                    Linus

commit 2d7bd0389f1494040efcddd5a1b651f362bbf2c9
Author: Linus Benedict Torvalds <torvalds@klaava.Helsinki.FI>
Date:   Mon Jun 15 20:04:54 1992 +0000

    patch3....
    
    Ok, I already announced it on the kernel mailing-list, but I might as
    well go all the way. I put out patch3 to 0.96a yesterday, and it's
    available on banjo in pub/Linux/Linus, and I'll upload it to the other
    normal ftp-sites tonight.
    
    NOTE! Patch3 is (like patch2) more of a kernel-hacker patch: it's just
    in case you want to keep up with my kernel. It has some problems with
    some serial lines, and if you experience them, I'd like to know what
    type of chip you are running (and what linux reports on bootup). If you
    don't think patching the kernel is fun, you might as well forget this
    and wait for a real release (next month?).
    
    Patch 3 contains:
    
     - support for attaching and detaching processes under gdb (but you need
       a gdb that knows about this).
     - 16550A support
     - full core-dumping (again, you need a gdb that supports it)
     - sockets have no problems with non-root binding etc
     - /dev/zero implemented (mknod /dev/zero c 1 5)
    
    None of the patches are very big (the whole patch is 17kB compressed,
    most of it attach/detach code), but they are all pretty useful.
    
    The 16550A support means that with the appropriate chip you now should
    be able to use the serial ports at much higher speeds, but as mentioned,
    it seems to break on some machines.
    
    The detaching isn't perfect yet (I noticed only after making the diffs
    that I had forgotten to do some cleanups), but it's not generally a
    problem (the code just forgets to give the process back to it's rightful
    father).
    
    The patch is relative to the pl2 kernel, so you have to use the earlier
    patches first. This time, I've added the lib/itimer.c code.
    
    16550A support was written by tdavis, the correct format of the
    core-dumps was written by eric (who also wrote the attach/detach code I
    used as an example when implementing it), /dev/zero was written by
    almesber. Nice to see good patches: I just did the socket-thing and
    rewrote the attaching to suit me.
    
                    Linus
