commit d3465417f56e99c858e0bc136e63aa67e6ef90bf
Author: Linus Torvalds <torvalds@cc.helsinki.fi>
Date:   Tue Jun 8 14:45:33 1993 +0000

    [ANNOUNCE] linux-0.99 patchlevel 10
    
    I've finally released an official version of linux-0.99 patchlevel 10:
    there have been various alpha versions floating around which differ in
    details (notably networking code), which shouldn't be used any more.
    The new linux version is available only as full source code: the diffs
    would have been too big to be useful.  You can find linux-0.99.10.tar.z
    (along with keytables.tar.z) on nic.funet.fi: pub/OS/Linux/PEOPLE/Linus
    and probably on tsx-11 and other linux archives within a day or two (so
    check there first if you are in the states).
    
    Linux-0.99 pl10 has a number of new features and changes in interface.
    The most notable of these are:
    
     - the networking code is reorganized (generally called "net-2",
       although unrelated to the BSD release).  The new code implements a
       lot of standard features lacking in net-1, and also changes the user
       interface to be closer to the BSD standards.  Notably, the old
       configuration binaries won't work, so to get the new networking to
       work you'll have to get the net-2 binaries as well.  The networking
       binaries are available on tsx-11.mit.edu (and mirrors) under the
       directory pub/linux/packages/net/net-2 (and the setup syntax has
       changed somewhat..)
    
       The networking code has been mainly organized and rewritten by Fred
       van Kempen, with drivers by Donald Becker.
    
     - serial line setup has been changed: linux 0.99 pl10 does *not* try to
       autodetect serial ports very agressively.  If you have other serial
       ports than the standard com1/com2, or nonstandard IRQ etc values,
       this means that it's less likely to work without any help.  The
       solution is not to recompile the kernel - you should get the
       "setserial" program available from tsx-11.mit.edu in the directory
       pub/linux/sources/sbin/setserial-2.01.tar.z that allows you to
       dynamically configure your serial ports to suit your setup.
    
       The main organizer behind the serial line changes is tytso (Theodore
       Ts'o).
    
     - Keyboard setup has changed: it is no longer hardcoded at compile
       time, but instead you can use the new "loadkeys" program to load in a
       new keyboard map on the fly.  The default keyboard map is the normal
       US keyboard (yes, I should have used the Finnish one by default, but
       after thinking of all the problems that would have resulted in I
       forgot about that idea).  The loadkeys code can be found in the
       "keytables.tar.z" archive, which also contains keymaps for most
       normal keyboard types.  To create a custom keyboard table is very
       easy - just take a 5 minute look at the existing map files (they
       resemble the ones used by xmodmap, so if you are familiar with
       those..)
    
       The loadable keymaps were mostly implemented by Risto Kankkunen.
    
    There are a lot of other internal kernel changes, but they should be
    mostly transparent, and noticeable only indirectly due to new features
    or (hopefully) better/faster/whatever operation.  These include:
    
     - the SysV IPC patches are in by default: Krishna Balasubramanian.
       If you need these, you know what it's about (notably, dosemu 0.49
       wants them).
     - inode handling is updated: inodes and files are now dynamically
       allocated within the kernel, and use a hash table for faster lookup
       (along with a NFU algorithm for the inode cache).  Steven Tweedie.
     - Updated FPU emulation: mostly exception handling changes, making the
       emulator handle most exceptions the same way a 486 does.  The
       emulator is written by Bill Metzenthen.
     - a few ext2-fs updates by Remy Card and Steven Tweedie.
     - support for the 'fsync()' function (Steven Tweedie)
     - various (minor) SCSI patches to catch some error conditions, add
       support for VLB adaptec controllers without DMA and so on (different
       people).
     - other changes - I forget.
    
    In addition to patches sent in by others, I've naturally made my own
    changes (often *to* the patches sent in by others :-).  Among other
    things, the pl10 buffer cache code now also tries to share pages with
    executables, resulting in better cacheing especially of binaries (giving
    noticeable improvements in kernel recompilation speed on some machines).
    Also, I've changed a lot of low-level things around to help the iBCS2
    project: this includes things like internal segment handling and the
    signal stack (which now looks the same as on SysV i386 unixes).  All in
    all, pl10 has a disturbing amount of new code, but will hopefully work
    well despite (due to?) the number of changes.
    
    The new networking code in particular will change the network setup a
    lot - it now looks more standard, but if you were used to the old way of
    doing things..  On the other hand, most people actively using the
    networking features have hopefully gotten warnings about this on the NET
    channel for the last few weeks.  Also, the networking code still isn't
    perfect: Fred is still working on it, but it seems to have reached a
    reasonably stable platform on which it will be easier to build.  Look
    out for the new-and-improved networking manual, hopefully out soon(?).
    
    Standard request: please try it all out, give it a real shakedown, and
    send comments/bug-reports to the appropriate place (I'm always
    appropriate, but you may want to send the report to the mailing lists
    and/or the newsgroup as well).  I apologize for the lateness of the
    release (forcing hlu to make interim gcc releases that relied on
    nonstandard kernels etc), and the changes are somewhat bigger than I'd
    prefer, so the more testerts that try it out, the faster we can try to
    fix any possible problems.  The new kernel has gone through various
    stages of ALPHA-diffs and some late ALPHA-pl10's, so there shouldn't be
    any major surprises, but alpha releases tend not to get even close to
    the coverage a real release gets...
    
                            Linus

commit eeb7df9e7d9a3a48dc39743a13e0ed1cc0d5cb41
Author: Linus Torvalds <torvalds@cc.helsinki.fi>
Date:   Sat Mar 13 19:37:57 1993 +0000

    Linux 0.99 patchlevel 7 available..
    
    It has been two weeks since the last release, so it's high time you
    should once more enjoy the pleasures of patching up your kernel to a
    higher version number if you are into those kinds of perversions. Linux
    0.99pl7 is available as both full source and diffs against pl6 on
    nic.funet.fi: pub/OS/Linux/PEOPLE/Linus, and it will probably show up on
    the other major sites within days.
    
    As of pl7, I'm trying out a new format: both the full distribution and
    the diffs are now compressed with gzip as it is now available at most
    machines. Also, the diffs are no longer context diffs: they use the
    smaller unified diff format. At least the stock SunOS 'patch' binary
    seems not to understand them at all, but GNU patch has no problems, and
    unified diffs are a bit smaller (not that it matters much after gzip has
    done its deed on them).
    
    As to the changes in pl7: they are many and varied, and hopefully all to
    the better (-"Dream on Linus" -"Shut up"). Short list follows, hope I
    haven't forgotten anything major.
    
     - ext2fs is in: note that this is version 0.2c and that if you are
       currently using an older version there are some changes. Small
       filesystems (< 256MB) should reportedly be automatically converted,
       bigger filesystems need some assistance. Ext2fs written by Remy Card.
     - xiafs is also in: again, the final version uses a slightly different
       layout to support exact file block counts, so if you use the xiafs,
       you should make sure you have the latest fs-tools. Xiafs written by
       Frank Xia.
     - updated Ultrastor SCSI driver with scatter/gather by Scott Taylor.
       It should be much faster, as well as support the Ultrastor-34F.
     - major changes in the memory manager. Yours truly got carried away,
       and finally cleaned up the mm layer due to pmacdona wanting mmap() on
       /dev/zero. This means that the IPC patches won't go in, and need
       updating. Krishna?
     - more big changes: I rewrote most of the VFS filename-handling.
       Filenames are copied into kernel space before being used, which
       cleaned things up somewhat, as well as simplifying some race-
       condition handling. As a result, I was also able to easily expand
       the minix fs to cover the "linux" fs that some people have been using
       (same layout, but with 30-character names).
     - updated the printer driver: Nigel Gamble. It is now able to use
       interrupts, although the default behaviour is still to poll.
     - serial driver updates by tytso (but no SLIP yet)
     - various minor patches for POSIX compliace: Bruce Evans, Rick Sladkey
       and me.
     - other minor patches all over the place: scsi, tcpip etc.
    
    All in all, the patches are almost half a megabyte even as unified
    diffs: getting the full sources might be easier than patching it all up.
    
    As always, some of the patches are actually tested by me, some aren't
    (and just because I wrote some of them doesn't mean I actually *tested*
    them: I have no idea if mmap() works on /dev/zero, although it should).
    I have neither a printer nor an Ultrastor controller, and I haven't got
    the diskspace to test out the new filesystems, so I can only hope they
    work "as advertized". If you have problems, I want to hear about them,
    so keep the reports coming, and try to pinpoint the problem as well as
    you can ("when I do *this* it happens every time..").
    
                    Linus
